hi everyone welcome back to the channel
uh I'm back with another breakdown of a
common system design interview question
this time we're going to go over how to
design leak code or it's often times
referred to online as online judge
online coding competition or Live
Leaderboard you'll see any variation of
these that pop up uh now if you like our
content and you want more please make
sure that you like and subscribe I got
to say the obligatory kind of YouTube
intro there but truthfully the the
increasing number of subscribers is
really motivating to us uh and encourage
us to pump out more content for you all
on this channel so if you like what
we're doing make sure you subscribe Now
quickly for those of you who may be new
to the channel uh by way of introduction
I'm Evan I'm a former meta staff
engineer and interviewer I've conducted
thousands of interviews now uh nowadays
I'm the co-founder of a site called
hello interview and we help software
Engineers prepare for their upcoming
interviews both via free educational
resources like these videos and the the
uh you know the content that's on our
site
as well as paid mock interviews with
senior interviewers from your target
company so for example if you're
interviewing at Google uh you can meet
with a Google engineer or manager spend
an hour with them practicing and they'll
be able to point out exactly what your
gaps are uh to help you kind of land
that role at Google uh lastly if videos
aren't your thing I've linked a written
guide in the description below that
you'll see and I go into all the same
topics as this video just in written
form so I'll show you what that looks
like over here uh the written form we
got all the diagrams the breakdowns
things that make this bad good great as
well as I think now we're up to 15 other
common problem breakdowns some deep
Dives introductions lots of good content
over here so go ahead and check it out
uh but without further Ado let's go
ahead and and get
started all right before we jump into
solving the problem as we do in every
video Let's just break down the
framework that we're going to use in
order to answer this system design
question of of course this is the
framework that we recommend that you use
for all of your system design interviews
if you've watched any of our past videos
you know this well by now you can skip
ahead but let me just walk through it
very quickly we're going to start by
going over the requirements this is both
the functional requirements or the core
features of the system as well as the
non-functional requirements or the
qualities of the system so qualities
like how scalable how low latency things
of that nature and then we're going to
go into the core entities this is
basically the dat data that our system
persists and exchanges via its apis
which will transition us nicely to go
over the apis of the system this is the
contract we have with our user of course
we're not going to do data flow it's
less relevant for these sorts of product
D style questions uh so we're going to
jump right to high level design where
we're going to get to the Whiteboard and
we're going to sketch out some
components and boxes in order to have a
highle design that strictly satisfies
our functional requirements so it's
going to be really simple at this point
point it's not going to worry about
scale or any of those non-functional
requirements but then we're going to
move on to deep Dives and this is where
we're going to go deep so this is where
we're going to satisfy each of our
non-functional requirements one by one
by adding to our system additional
complexity to ensure that it meets all
of those qualities which we defined
during the non-fun functional
requirements so as promised we're going
to start with those functional
requirements and this is how you should
start any of your interviews you want to
get a clear understanding of what the
features are or the requirements of the
system and so if it's a system that you
don't know well then you probably ask
your interviewer a number of questions
here in order to understand what this
think thing is and what the constraints
are now I'm going to make the I think
not too crazy assumption and assume that
we all know what leak code is because if
you're watching this video you're
probably preparing for interviews and
you're probably spending a lot of time
on leak code right now um so what I'm
going to do is instead of you guys
watching me type I'm going to paste in
the functional requirements here the
features of the system and we can chat
about them so the way you can think of
the functional requirements is these are
usually like users should be able to
statements I didn't put that prefix here
to save myself the typing and I
recommend you do the same in the
interview but we want users to be able
to view a list of problems so when they
come to the site the first thing that
they'll see is maybe all of the problems
that we have available to them they
should be able to click on one of those
and then view a specific problem as well
as of course code the solution there on
their client once they've done that they
should be able to submit that solution
and then get the feedback as to how they
did if they passed all the test cases or
not and then lastly a feature that some
of you might not know about within leak
code is that we want to support
competitions and specifically
competitions with a live leaderboard and
so I'll Define more precisely what a
competition is a little later on when we
get to it um but for all intents and
purposes this is basically everybody
starting at the same time they have a
number of questions to answer they try
to answer them as quickly as possible
and then we have a live leaderboard that
shows who's currently in the lead at any
given point so those are going to be the
features or the functional requirements
of our
system now the next thing that we do is
we talk about the nonfunctional
requirements and so non-functional
requirements again are the qualities of
the system some things that you really
want to consider here are like cap
theorem so we want to prioritize
consistency over availability or the
other way around any environment
constraints things like scalability
latency durability security fault
tolerance maybe even compliance those
are all things that are relevant again
I'll paste in a couple key ones that
that I've identified here for the
non-functional requirements for leak
code and note that in any system you can
go off that long list that I just said
every system should be durable and low
latency and have security and all of
these things but that's not interesting
in an interview in an interview what you
want to do is identify like what's
uniquely relevant and interesting to
this particular question that's probably
a better way to even frame
non-functional requirements in the first
place he's like what makes this system
uniquely challenging and so you'll
answer those questions starting with cap
theorem um are we going to prioritize
availability or consistency in our case
we want to prioritize availability over
consistency and the reason being here is
you can think about any place where we
make an edit doesn't matter that people
see it immediately basically does every
single write or excuse me does every
single read need to read the latest
right and in our case no you could
update a problem definition and maybe
people still see the stale one for a
couple seconds afterwards or somebody
could submit their solution and somebody
might not see it update in the
leaderboard within that exact second
that's okay we'd rather that be the case
but the site always be up and available
to our users so we're going to offer
availability over consistency an
important one that's unique to uh to to
code is the security and isolation when
running user code we'll talk more about
why this is important but of course like
we're taking in a user's uh input and
specifically code that we're executing
on our own machines we certainly want to
make sure that that's not malicious um
so that's going to be something that's
important there we want to be able to
scale but you'll note not just scale
generally we're putting this in the
context of our system and we're
quantifying it wherever possible so we
want to scale to support these
competitions and we'll say that
competitions can have up to 100,000
users that's probably something I would
have asked the interviewer and and then
the last thing here is we want like a
fresh or near realtime leaderboard um so
people should be able to look at the
leaderboard and you know see it updating
maybe in near real time to know who the
current leaders are uh ideally without
having to even refresh their page so
here are some of the interesting
non-functional requirements these are
going to guide our deep Dives later on
now before I move out of the
requirements um while if you've watched
my earlier videos you know my opinion
about back of the envelope estimations I
don't recommend you do that up front
here because I don't think they
influence Your Design yet if you know a
reason why you should because you're
trying to make a decision feel free to
do them at this point but otherwise what
I typically recommend is that you tell
your interviewer hey I know some
candidates do estimations here uh I'm
going to save my estimations for
sometime maybe later in the design if I
need them in order to influence a
decision so if the results of my
calculations will influence a decision
I'll do them then but for now I'm going
to foro but what I do recommend that you
do is that you just ask your interviewer
about scalability or excuse me about the
scale of the system um so I would ask
the my interviewer you know how many
daily active users uh how many problems
maybe I I guess and make my own
estimations but you can probably just
ask them and so in our case we're going
to have up to 100,000 daily active users
that'll be that Peak that comes from
competition so those two numbers are the
same and then I looked at leak code just
before this it has about
3200 3,200 problems so we'll say there's
3,000 total problems um so these are the
the requirements of the system this is
the foundation that we're going to build
upon and our goal for the rest of the
interview is to now design a system that
strictly satisfies these requirements
and we want to stay focused importantly
to these requirements so we don't want
to go design something that's different
than this we're going to build up those
functional requirements on our high Lev
design and then we'll make sure we
satisfy the non-functional requirements
in our Deep
dive so the next thing that we're going
to do is we're going to go over the core
entities of the system and now
importantly what I do when I'm
interviewing and the suggestion that I
give to all of the many candidates that
I work with is that I recommend they
don't document the entire data model
here yet uh and the reason for this is
that there's a good chance you don't
know it yet if this is a problem you
haven't seen before or a system you're
unfamiliar then documenting all of the
fields or columns this early in the
interview can be daunting and the
reality is it's not necessary like give
yourself time to think of that later on
during the highle design
as you'll see that we do but what is
important at this point is that you have
a clear understanding of just the
entities the objects or the tables um
that are going to be needed in your data
model and so for example some of the
things that are going to be particularly
important here let me maybe scroll up a
bit or obviously we're going to have a
user that one's pretty obvious we're
going to have problems uh when you
submit a submission to a problem we'll
save it as like a submission record
we'll probably have some compet comption
objects this is going to have
information about the competition when
it starts stops Etc and then this one
sort of depends on how you design your
system and is a bit more handwavy but
like maybe you have a leaderboard maybe
you just query submissions and Aggregate
and that is your leaderboard but I'll
put it here for now and so in a real
interview I would be clear with my
interviewer and I would communicate I
would say I'm just going to list out
some of the core entities so I can get
my mind around the sorts of objects that
are going to be exchanged in the API
that we're going to do next but I'll
detail the full schema for these later
on in the interview so I'd make sure I
communicate that with them uh and 99 out
of 100 times I'll say that sounds
great so once you've done that you're
going to scroll down to our next step
maybe if I scroll up to show you we've
done the core entities next we're going
to go on to the API so we can come back
down here and these are the user-facing
apis this is basically what do we expose
to the user and the key thing here is
that the apis are going to satisfy our
functional requirements and they're
going to exchange our core entities and
so you can lean on that shorthand as
you'll see me do here in a second and
instead of kind of thinking about what
are all the many API endpoints I might
need for a system like this just scroll
back up to your functional requirements
and go one by one through these there's
a good chance that often times it's a
one toone mapping for every functional
requirement there's one API endpoint
that's not always the case sometimes
it's one to two you'll need to be kind
of a little flexible in an interview of
course but for the most part come up
here and start with what API endpoint is
needed for users to view a list of
problems okay so I can come down to my
API and I'm going to say view a list of
problems what is that going to
require um this is going to be a git
endpoint it's going to hit some problems
resource of course I can put my API
version whatever I know some folks like
to do that it's it's not the most
important thing in my opinion um and
this right here is probably good enough
and that I'm getting a list of problems
I'm gonna add some some extra stuff here
which is that you know I can probably
filter on things like a category or
maybe a difficulty uh difficulty and
then I probably want some pagination
here so I can just do page based
pagination I'm going to do the general
page there as well as the page size uh
there you go so that's my basic get
problems and what does it return well
well it returns a list of problems but
maybe importantly and this is fairly
minor but what I would call that in my
interview just cuz it takes no time is
that problems are going to be probably
pretty large entities they're going to
have test cases and you know the code
stub and all this stuff and I don't need
that at this point so I really just need
like a partial problem I'm deriving this
from typescript this term partial you
can use whatever you want but the point
is I'm telling my interviewer that I
recognize that I want this thing to be
fast and it can be fast by minimizing
the payload size and I can minimize the
payload size by just sending over the
wire the things that are interesting
here like the ID the name of the problem
and the difficulty and maybe the
category right so that satisfies viewing
a list of problems the next one is view
a given problem and code a solution and
so for view a problem the code a
solution happens client side so we're
going to say view a problem this is also
going to be a get probably that same
problems resource and then I'm just
going to use a path parameter here
instead of a query parameter and it's
going to be the problem ID and so just
quickly the distinction here is this
notation that I did where it's a
question mark followed by all of the ERS
stand uh these are called query
parameters and they're useful for when
things are optional and then path
parameter so this is just going to be
problem slash and then the problem ID or
the problem name um these are for when
things are required basically you need a
problem ID in order to view a problem
otherwise there would be nothing to view
right and this is just going to return
that problem so there's our first to API
endpoints uh the next one is that we
want to be able to submit a solution and
that'll of course give us feedback and
so we can have our submit
solution and on submission here we're
going to have some post endpoint because
now we're creating a resource we're
creating an entity we're creating a row
in our table a submission row so we're
going to post um and then you know the
name of the resource here this could be
submissions this could be problems still
some people care a lot about this most
interviewers don't and I certainly don't
I don't think this is the most important
part of the interview um so I'm still
going to do something like this I'll
probably just post to that same endpoint
um maybe you can put like a SLS submit
there but I know people get all kind of
upset about verbs and things to I've
read your comments um but the important
thing is it's a post endpoint here I'm
going to post to the problem ID that I'm
solving for and then I'm going to maybe
get in response the submission object
that was created but I need a post body
here and so I'm going to say what code
uh that I'm sending that's going to be
important of course the language uh that
I'm I coded in because I can choose from
different languages so maybe it's python
something like this and then maybe
optionally I have a competition ID and
so this is if this was part of a
competition I would send over the
competition ID as well so that we could
associate this submission with the
competition that I'm a part of so this
is probably good enough one thing that I
will note is like if the code was really
large maybe you want to up upload it
separately like to S3 first get back
that S3 URL and then just pass in here
the S3 URL instead of all the code the
reality is I'm not too worried about
that here and I'm going to put the
constraint that you know user Solutions
can only be up to a couple uh you know
maybe tens of kilobytes at most so I
think it's still fine for us to put in
the body but that's something to note
and then the last requirement that we
have here is that live leader
leaderboard so we want to be able to get
that
leaderboard uh and I'm going to say you
know get
leaderboard and that API endpoint of
course it's going to be a G again well
maybe say there's a leaderboard resource
and then we'll need that path pram
because it's mandatory of the
competition ID and then because this
could return up to 100,000 participants
we'll want pagination here as well so
again I'm going to do simple page based
P
pagination um cursor based is the other
option but I'm going to do this uh and
that is going to return we'll say that
leaderboard object uh so there's my apis
again the key here is that I have an API
or at least one API for each of my
functional requirements basically I've
satisfied my functional requirements
with my apis these are user facing I
paid attention to some some relatively
important things like if it's going to
return a lot of items then having
pagination is smart some filtering here
query prams for when it's optional path
prams for when it's required ired when
we're posting can of course use the post
body in order to post more
information um but now with these in
place we can use these in order to now
build our highle
design so as a reminder the goal of our
highle design is to satisfy those
functional requirements and so we're
basically just going to again go one by
one through these functional
requirements or one by one through our
API since they were derived by the
functional requirements and build up a
really simple system we're not focused
on scale or anything yet that's going to
come later we're just going to focus on
satisfying each of those requirements
and by working linearly here it's going
to help us stay super focused on the
task at hand and not ultimately get
distracted and so one common Pitfall
that I see when I'm interviewing
candidates is that they start to get
distracted by all these additional
things that can happen you know maybe
they're designing something like a Yelp
and they need to introduce reviews and
they start talking about replies to
reviews or comments or admins coming
back and and emailing the the person or
replying to a review it's like this is
all the distraction we agreed on what
the functional requirements of the
system were upfront there was a reason
for that and so let's make sure that we
stay focused and adhere to them cuz
ultimately we only have 35 to 50 minutes
depending on the length of the system
design interview from the company that
you're interviewing at so I'm going to
start with this view a list of problems
or satisfying this endpoint here what is
the simple thing that we can do in order
to satisfy that I'm going to start
drawing over here the first thing is
that we have a clients of course this is
the the client that's interacting with
our website and then I know in many of
the other videos we opt for
microservices right up front this is
generally a good strategy in this case
looking at the functional requirements
things look relatively simple and
straightforward to me so I'm going to
start by just having a simple server
client server relationship no
microservices if we need to break the up
later as we keep going maybe we will but
I'm going to start simple and I'm just
going to call this the primary server to
start and then I'm going to introduce a
database this database is of course is
going to for now to satisfy this
requirement store our problem entity so
we got that problem entity there this is
our
database and so we talked about in our
core entities how we would come back and
Define some of those data models this is
the time to do it so when you're
actually in your design and you've
introduced something you know what you
need there
so what's going to happen when a user
requests to see the problem list well
they're going to want to see problems
and these problems will have something
like an ID probably a name uh a
difficulty we said they would have as
well as a category and so that's all
they have for now we're going to add
things probably later as we fulfill more
of the high level design and more of the
requirements but let's start with that
for now and so when a user goes to view
the list of problems the client's going
to make that API request here to our
primary server our primary server is
then going to query for all of our
problems and return it back and of
course we had some pagination here we
had some filtering so this is just going
to be simple uh kind of wear Clauses if
we're using a SQL database or filtering
uh depending on the database that we're
using now the choice of database here
one we could punt on this decision until
later I'm going to say that for this
problem it doesn't really matter we're
not doing anything fancy there's very
few number of users we only have 100
100,000 daily active users that's not a
lot at all there aren't a ton of Rights
uh and there aren't as a result of that
daily active user there's a ton of reads
so go with your favorite database here
postgress is fine if you want to go the
SQL route if you like a Dynamo DB that's
great here too don't overthink this
decision it's not the most important
thing given there are no kind of key
insights like you know really high right
through put or something that's going to
dictate us making a different decision
so viewing a list of problems super
simple now what about the next one view
a given problem and code a solution this
is equally simple so maybe I'll label my
endpoints here just to be clear the
first one that we have here is get
problems and then now we're doing get
problem these are all coming in here you
can label these in your interview if you
want or not doesn't make a ton of
difference but I just want to be clear
in this video and so this next one very
similar process the client asked to get
the problem we're going to go to our
database query by our problem ID this is
probably going to be our primary key so
that it's easy for us to query by it's
nice and fast great and we'll return
that problem ID no problem easy we'll
render it to the user now when a user
clicks on a problem they expect to see
some more stuff than just this though at
this point they're going to need a code
stub and I'm going to say code stubs
because we're probably going to have
some object there which has the
different code stubs per language
there's test cases here uh you know
there's going to be some description of
the problem of course in leak code maybe
there's Solutions there sorts of all all
sorts of other stuff but that's the main
things that are relevant so you can see
so I'm adapting my data model as we go
great so so now you have viewed a
problem in order to answer that problem
well you're going to just do that on
your client this is kind of a small
thing uh Monaco there's different
editors or idees that are open source uh
mon
mono is one of them and so you can
basically just have that have that
editor have that IDE that light simple
IDE directly in your browser so users
can uh write the code directly there for
the problem that they're
viewing next up we're going to look at
what happens when you submit a solution
and you want to get feedback how are we
going to implement that how are we going
to implement this submit API
endpoint and so the simplest thing that
you could do is that you could run the
User submitted code directly in your
primary server in your API server here
so this basically means saving the code
to a file and the local file system
running it and then capturing the output
saving it into the database um this is a
terrible idea don't do it this really
sucks because if a user submits
malicious code code that we don't trust
and they absolutely could do this then
it could do all sorts of naughty things
it could take down our server compromise
our system they could delete data since
we're connected to the database they
could DS us they could how they could
mine crypto I don't know they could do
all sorts of naughty stuff in here and
we don't want to let them do that um so
anytime that you have user code where
you don't know what it could be it could
be anything running it on a primary
server that's connected to your other
services is a bad idea you need
isolation isolation is the key key word
here and so for our highle design where
we're doing something simple maybe it's
fine to just say that you're going to do
this I know that typically that's the
pattern that we follow do something
simple and highle design and then layer
it on later in the non-functional
requirements now because this one is so
naughty uh I would probably recommend
just kind of like upfront addressing it
I would feel pretty uneasy as the
interviewer if a candidate just proposed
that they were going to do this and
moved on now you could say I'm going to
run it in the primary server for now cuz
just the high level design I'm going to
come back to this and I'm going to
improve this cuz I know that this is a
big security concern that would be okay
if you want to proactively communicate
that um but if you know it's an issue
and you know some solutions then even
though it's the highle design maybe you
just jump in and solve the problem and
I'm going to do that here because I
don't want anybody to you know only
watch up until this point in the video
think that this is an okay solution and
then go do it in an interview um so
let's talk about what some other options
are of course as I said the issue was
that we need some isolation we can't let
them run in the same place as the file
system and the database Etc of our
primary server and so we could satisfy
this isolation by running a VM or a
virtual machine on the privary server
here so let me just kind of draw that
this could be a a VM to run code uh and
VMS provide a fully isolated environment
on top of the server and so this way if
there are any crashes or any malicious
code or anything bad that happens
they're totally confined to this box
here they're totally confined to the
virtual machine machine and they can't
impact the primary server at all and so
there's there's still some issues here
the main issues with the VM is that
they're a decent amount of overhead they
run an entire operating system they run
a full OS so they're really resource
intensive and this basically means that
you're going to need more of these
primary servers you're going need a
bunch more Hardware in order to support
all of the different VMS in order to run
user code because of course in the
future we're going to need to scale this
um and the VMS because they're so
intensive they also lead to some some
slow startup and as I mentioned that
inefficiency of resource utilization us
needing more Hardware so they're not a
great option now we can get around both
of those issues kind of that slow
startup the resource intensive Nature by
instead making this a container and so
what we can do is that we can use
something like Docker containers where
unlike a virtual machines containers
share the host operating system and they
only package up the application code and
the dependent
so they're much more lightweight they're
much more efficient and allows us to run
more instances of this container on the
same hardware and thus of course spend
less money so what we can do I'm
actually going to copy this again
because this will be a little bit more
to draw uh but we can have all these
containers down here uh so we can have a
container for each runtime that we
support this is basically all of the
different code Java python Etc and so
what the containers are going going to
do is that they're going to install the
necessary dependencies so you know uh
all the necessary dependencies to run
JavaScript Java python uh
Etc and then they're going to run that
code in these sandbox environments in
each of these containers and then they
can respond to the primary server which
with whatever the result was and update
the database and so but before I kind of
talk more about that flow I want to
throw out one other great option here
this I think is the one that I'm going
to go with
but another great option here is to use
what are called serverless functions and
so a good example of this is like AWS
Lambda you may have heard of that great
thing to to look up if you haven't but
these serverless functions are just
small stateless event driven functions
it kind of sounds fancy uh that run in
response to triggers so just like an
HTTP request like a rest request um and
they're managed by Cloud providers like
AWS and they automatically scale up or
down based on demand basically instead
of having a server a container that's
always sitting here cuz these exist on
servers of course you basically just
make an HTTP request the telling AWS
Lambda for example that you need some
resources it pops up uh you know a
little resource uh which is the Lambda
which can then be configured with the
runtime environment support Etc in order
to run the code and do the same thing
and so these are always here sitting
waiting we can hit them run the code in
the case of the lambdas there's nothing
here we have a request to run some code
code we tell AWS I need to run some Java
code it pops up a machine or a part
portion of a machine they handle that
internally that needs to run that code
takes your code runs it and gives you
the response and so that's also a great
option candidates can absolutely use
lambdas or other serverless functions
here uh works great the problem with
lambdas is that they have an issue with
cold start so when you go and you
request it and you want it then it's got
to be pulled up and it's got to download
the dependencies and get itself into a
state where it's ready to run whatever
code it needs to run and so there's been
a lot of work in the AWS team and
strategies in order to avoid this cold
start problems you can warm them up have
them already there of which case you
sort of just have the containers here so
anyway any option works I'm going to opt
for this so we have kind of an
additional server here or handful of
servers that are running each of these
different containers for our different
runtime environments or Docker
containers and so now what happens is
that the primary server is going to pass
the code down
to these guys they're going to run it
there's going to be some response maybe
there's errors that happen success
failure of course they're running test
cases give that back to the primary
server and then the primary server is
going to update that by saving it to
some submission and that submission
again we talked uh a little bit about
the fields that are going to be needed
here it's going to have you know
probably the the test case results uh
pass or fail so maybe I'll I'll just
call it past and we can make that a
Boolean uh errors if they existed how
long it took to run some of that sort of
stuff is going to come back from our
containers and we can store it here as a
submission all right we're almost done
with our highle design here if we come
back the last thing that we need to do
is support these competitions in a live
leaderboard and so the first thing is we
should Define a competition over here
we're going to have some competition
it's going to have some ID and it's
probably going to have a start time and
an end time maybe there's some
restrictions or things like this it's
also going to have some problems I guess
what I should probably do forgive me
here I maybe should have stated this
earlier is what the heck is a
competition we sort of need to Define it
so in an interview maybe earlier on
hopefully or at this point you're going
to ask your interviewer what is a
competition and so let me Define that up
here what is a
competition we're going to Define it as
follows so we're going to Define it as
this competitions have some start time
they last 90 minutes and there's 10
problems that uh you know the folks
competing need to try to solve we can
have up to 100,000 users per competition
and the way that we determine a winner
is who solves the most problems in those
90 minutes and in the case that people
have solved the same amount of problems
then it's whoever solved them faster
okay so that's what a competition is so
when we we come back down here and we
Define our competition object we have
the ID start time end time and that list
of problems this of course is just going
to be the problem IDs um but the list of
problems the 10 problems that are
involved in this
competition okay and so now when a user
comes and they submit something or they
try to run their code then they're also
going to have the competition ID that
they're involved in so there are some
things that we need to add to our
submission here the competition ID I
guess we forgot this originally I forgot
this originally the problem ID the user
ID and then it's kind of obvious but I'm
just going to add our user entity ID
being the only relevant field of course
there's other things but you and the
interviewer both know what they are so
we don't need to put them um but so now
we have this submission it's got the
competition ID the problem and all sorts
of information and so as far as the high
Lev design goes when we want to get the
leaderboard uh I guess I should have had
that post submit here too what did we
have that as problem SL ID and then now
we're going to have that git
leaderboard right and so that's going to
be the ID of the competition and so when
we want to get the get the
leaderboard um what we could do in the
simple way is just have our primary
server query our database for all of the
submissions for a given competition ID
so we' make that the primary key and
then we would Group by user ID so how
many are completed there where past
equals true and then we would would
further sort in case of Tai by the
completion time um so we should probably
have completion time or creation time
here as well and so that would be what I
would do for the highle design just
super simple we'd have a query there
what the heck would that query look like
I don't know if it's the most
interesting thing in the world but I
just wrote it out and can paste it here
so we'll select the user ID the counter
the count of uh those past
submissions um and then the maximum of
the submit time
uh or submit it at I guess this should
probably be the Min one because we want
the shortest there submissions filter by
that competition ID and past equals true
so that may or may not be perfect I
wrote that fairly quick just before this
but it's not the most important thing
and you wouldn't write this query in
your interview you would just explain to
your interviewer that you could very
simply query the submission table
grouping by user ID and then using
completion time or the submitted at time
in order to do that ranking in case of
ties what I would also do at this point
is I would call out to my interviewer
that like I recognize that this is
inefficient I recognize that it would
work but it would be a pretty expensive
query especially if we have a lot of
people trying to hit our leaderboard and
so I would let them know that that's one
thing that I'm going to call attention
to that I'm going to go try and fix in
my deep Dives but for now if you look at
our design here what we have is a design
that successfully satisfies our core
functional requirements the core
features of the system users can view VI
a list of problems by making a request
to the primary server and then we'll
return all of the problems back to the
user to be shown allowing filtering on
difficulty category Etc they can view a
given Problem by providing that ID to
the problem that they're interested in
we'll fetch it based on primary key and
return to them the relevant code stubs
test cases etc for them to be able to
code their Solution on the Monaco IDE
here and then when they submit the
solution we'll take their code we'll
pass it to one of our containers here
based on the appropriate runtime we'll
run their code we'll take the result of
the output stored in our database as a
submission entity and then pass the
result back to the client letting them
know if they passed or failed and then
for competitions we have this
competition object that an admin or
whomever would create ahead of time
slightly out of scope for this interview
but more importantly when a user submits
they'll also provide that competition ID
in the case that they're competing uh in
a competition as we see down here in our
API we'll then attach that to their
submission um and then when we want to
see the leaderboard we'll just query
this submission table grouping by or
selecting only those within a
competition ID grouping by the number
that have passed by user and then
sorting by the speed that it took them
to complete that latest question and
then we can return that back to our
client all right so now it's deep dive
time we have our highle design in place
which satisfies those functional
requirements and now we're going to add
upon that highle design in order to make
sure that we can satisfy those
non-functional requirements and we'll go
deep in a couple of areas to make sure
that we satisfy these additional
requirements so we can go one by one
through these again we'll start with
security and isolation when running
users code so we talked about how we
already satisfied a good amount of this
by using these Docker containers here
this satisfied the isolation components
and largely the security component as
well because we're separate from the
primary server and we can't access any
of the resources like our database or
our primary file system or anything over
here but there's a couple other things
that we want to consider so despite the
fact that they're running in the
container there are a couple things that
could still go wrong now what if a
candidate just had in their code an
infinite Loop they just had a while true
or something well we would end up giving
them to one of our runtime Services one
of our Docker containers and it would
just run it infinitely and that Docker
container would be forever pre occupied
and we' need to spin up another
container uh and waste the resources
indefinitely on that one container that
has that while loop and so what we can
do there is that kind of the most
obvious thing is we can have an explicit
timeout per execution and so we can say
that code can only run for something
like 5 seconds for example and if code
runs for longer than 5 seconds then
we're going to kill it and return an
error back to the user and then
similarly we don't want a user who just
does a bunch of fork bombs or kind of
excessively uses memory or excessively
uses CPU on any of these given
containers um so for that we can add CPU
and memory bound so these containers can
be configured such that they have a
really tight limit on their memory and
CPU and if that limit is exceeded then
the whole container just gets teared
down and we'll pull up a new one of
course returning the error back to the
user maybe not being explicit so that
they don't try to like kind of reverse
engineer how they can take advantage of
us but these are really the two main
things we want to ensure users can't
abuse the resources and make run up our
bill and to satisfy that we can have
those timeouts and uh and CPU and memory
bounds um some other things that I'll
just mention here which are less
important but also interesting is like
we'll probably have a f a readon file
system on these Docker containers so we
won't let people kind of mess with the
file system at all for the code we'll
just write to the temp directory that'll
handle some issues that could
potentially come up there we probably
want Network isolation like they they
definitely shouldn't be able to read our
database or access our primary server or
anything um so we can have some basic
Network isolation stuff in place this is
like VPC controls and the AWS ecosystem
I'm not going to talk too much about
that uh because it's not the most
important thing you can do some
additional research if that's something
that's interesting to you and then some
stuff like you know we can enable it
such that it doesn't allow system calls
on the box so you know you can't mess
with the underlying system or operating
system next let's end up doing the fresh
and near realtime leaderboard I know
that we're going a little out of order
the order here doesn't particularly
matter we just want to make sure that
all of these are fulfilled um but as you
remember in the high level design we
talked about the limitation with
fetching the leaderboard being that this
query specifically over here was going
to be super expensive um so that's the
first problem that we want to solve and
then the second bit is this near real
time portion and freshness we want users
to be able to have their leaderboard
open and then just kind of have it
updating without them needing to refresh
their page and so we want it to update
every you know couple of seconds nearish
real time whatever it may be so that
they can see any changes that might have
happened to the leaderboard and so in
our current implementation we're going
to run this big expensive query which if
we're aggregating over 100,000 things
here this might take several seconds to
run additionally it's going to cost a
decent amount of money if this is
100,000 entries each entry that it needs
to aggregate over it's a couple hundreds
of bytes um like if this was Dynamo DB
and I think that we've determined maybe
it's postgress but it doesn't really
matter as an estimate this is like on
the order of 50 bucks per query uh you
can see a breakdown of how you would
calculate that on our Dynamo DB write up
on the website using right capacity
units but the thing that's important
here is that this is expensive it's
going to take too long and it's going to
cost too much money so we need to first
start by solving that and so the most
obvious thing that you could do is you
could introduce a cache and so by
introducing that cash cash maybe we'll
say it's
reddis uh redis cash what you would do
is that you would query the database
you'd run this expensive query and then
you would cash the result and then
everybody else who tries to fetch the
leaderboard is just going to hit the
cash but of course we don't want them to
hit the cach forever because very
quickly this leaderboard is going to
become stale so we would need to
introduce a TTL here so there would be a
TTL of maybe 10 seconds or something and
so some somebody would request uh the
leaderboard from the database we'd run
our expensive query we would cash it
with a time of of 10 seconds for the
next 10 seconds everybody is going to
hit that but then when 10 seconds
elapses this is going to get removed
from the cash and it's going to be a
cash Miss so they're going to go run the
expensive query again and again
repopulate the cash and so you probably
see what the issue is here both that
first user and every unlucky user who
hits us at the 10sec Mark is going to
have a cash Miss and they're going to
have to run the query
which we've cut down on the amount of
times we need to run the query
significantly we've saved ourselves tons
of money um but we led to a pretty bad
experience for that unlucky uh user that
hits us at at the boundaries here so how
can we solve that now what we can do is
we can update the cache uh on every
single right that's one solution here
actually before I do that let me propose
a different solution first so another
solution is that we can have a Cron job
or some you know scheduled worker here
whose job it is to refresh the cash and
so this Cron job might run instead every
10 seconds or so and now it's going to
every 10 seconds query the database for
that expensive query and then update the
cache those arrows should be single not
double but I'm going to delete that in a
second so it doesn't matter and now we
don't need a TTL here every 10 seconds
this guy's going to go run the new query
and then save the fresher data in the
cache now every single user hits the
cach this is great right there's never
anyone hitting the database other than
this Cron job which runs once every 10
seconds in order to make sure things are
fresh so that's fine this is still kind
of expensive but on the order of things
not really who cares and it doesn't
matter if it takes a ton of time uh it's
having a slight impact on freshness but
at least all of our users are always
hitting the cach so they're always
getting kind of this o of one here and
well what's in the cach the cash value
is just a string uh as a reminder redis
is just key value pairs so the key here
is probably something like a string
leaderboard colon the
competition ID and then the value is
just some Json blob which is basically
the result of this expensive query and
so it'll have you know the rank list of
users as well as each of their scores
whatever it is that we need to
ultimately send back the client for them
to be able to render the leaderboard
right so that's what we have here now
the main issue with this approach if
it's run every 10 seconds is that this
cach is pretty stale us users are going
to be requesting the leaderboard they're
going to be maybe polling kind of
calling every couple of seconds to see
if there have been any updates and
nothing's going to change except for on
the 10sec is boundary and so this might
be fine uh it's probably too long
obviously you can just lower this make
it 5 seconds maybe even less if you
start to go below that then you know
you're running the Cron
job uh you know pretty frequently maybe
at a rate that's even more frequent than
the amount of time it takes for this
query to return like if this query takes
4 seconds to return and we're running
this every 3 seconds then we're going to
be overlapping with our previous query
and need more cron jobs um and that
might be too much to manage so my point
is this solution could work it's not
terrible you're going to have a little
bit of staleness you're going to want
this Cron job to run more frequently
than less frequently but it's maybe not
perfect you could get away with this uh
the thing that I don't love about it is
that you've introduced kind of an
additional dependency here this Cron job
that's going to have to run if it has
issues like maybe it goes down or
somebody pushes bad code to it then the
cach is never going to get updated and
we're going to all of a sudden have some
you know call it a Thundering Herd on
our database to do this expensive query
and that could really cost us um so for
that reason I'm going to opt to not go
with it but just know it's an okay
option especially if you did that in a
mid-level interview I think that's
totally great even in a senior interview
it's not a terrible suggestion um I
wouldn't necessarily count it against
you though it's certainly not the best
now the other thing that you could do is
you could just update this on each right
and so what you could do is you have
your result come in you update the
database instead of doing this query you
would do a cheaper query like for this
user how many submissions have they had
and what's the time of their last
submission and then go update just those
values in this Json blob and so this
would mean you'd have to read this
entire thing into memory parse the Json
blob update it and then resave it to
reddis and so that's sounded like a lot
of work it kind of is it's not great
especially cuz you can have some races
here like everybody's having sub
Missions at the same time and
fortunately redus is single threaded so
this would still work uh especially
since users can't like submit two
solutions back to back they're going to
always be different users this is again
it's an okay solution um but you're
reading a largish amount of data
especially if you have 100,000 users
it's not just largish it's like actually
large into memory in order to do some
kind of updates and then writing it back
to cash and then how are you going to
make sure that these remain consistent
it's a little bit more difficult and so
that solution also works again
everybody's just hitting the cache and
we never have to run this query that's
pretty nice um but I want to introduce
something that might be even better and
that's that in reddis it's just key
value pairs it's an in-memory data store
we have a fantastic write up written by
my co-founder Stefan uh on our on the
Hello interview website click on learn
at the top system some design and then
reddis and you'll see it and it explains
how reddis works I'll give just a slight
overview reddis is made up of key value
pairs where the value can be any data
structure or most data structures it
could be something like a string or a
basic type like it is here or it could
be one of those data structures that you
know well from all of your studying of
DSA and so one such data structure that
exists is something called a sorted set
and so sorted sets are just collections
of unique elements where each element is
associated with a score that defines the
order of the element in that set so it's
a ranked set essentially all these
elements then are ordered by that score
and this is going to allow us to do
efficient range queries like retrieving
the elements within a specific score
range or ranking so if we go back to our
pagination here on our leaderboard if we
want say the second page 100 things then
we want just the leaderboard or the
rankings between 100 and 200 we can do
that really easily with sorted sets and
the time complexity it's in memory so
it's wicked fast we don't have to do any
querying um and the time complexity is
Ol l in so pretty quick there but now
what we would end up doing is that
within our sorted Set uh the element
would be like the user ID and then kind
of the thing that it's ranking on
ranking on the score that we would have
with it would be its computed score
which is going to be based on the number
of submissions and then maybe we add
some decimals uh for the submitted time
time to make that the the tiebreaker but
for Simplicity the score here is the
number of completed or pass submissions
that they've had right and so now we can
always just query this in order to get
the latest leaderboard walking through
that a user submits their code we run it
we
then uh update our database you know
write the additional submission to our
database and then go to reddis and for
that user in the sorted set if they
passed we update their score and do what
whatever calculations their score are
necessary based on that last submitted
time and so now it's a little bit easier
to keep these consistent we're writing
and reading just a little bit of data
from the red uh to and from reddis as
opposed to that huge blog and we still
maintain that all of our users end up
hitting the cash and they never have to
run an expensive query so that's a
fantastic option now in order to keep
things like near real time here I would
first ask my interviewer what is near
real time and I would maybe make a
proposal and I would argue that in this
case near real time is like three to
five two to five seconds the reality is
submissions aren't coming in that quick
and so if we just refresh every couple
seconds it's probably more than good
enough I'd make sure that I get a
consensus with my interviewer on that
but if that was the case then what I
would do here is I would still just pull
I would pull every 3 seconds to get the
new leaderboard for whatever page I'm on
um and then I would fetch you know the
scores just from within that start and
end offset and then I would update it on
the client now every time I ask this
question in an interiew interview
candidates naturally want to introduce
websockets or server sent events some
sort of persistent Connection in order
to truly do this in real time and I
think it's an interesting thing to bring
up I would bring it up in an interview
um but I would actually point out that I
think it's over engineering for this
case and the reason is introducing
websockets or SS comes with some
meaningful drawbacks it's a lot of
additional infrastructure to maintain
you need some sort of a websocket
manager you need to now not have
stateless servers but servers that are
maintaining state which has some
consequence to fault tolerance and
durability and so the added over the the
engineering overhead that's introduced
by bringing in websockets or S uh I
don't think is worth that couple of
seconds of more real time in a
submission and in an interview these are
the exact conversations to bring up like
that's an interesting trade-off to
discuss with your interviewer I
recognize that this solution exists but
given the constraints of this problem I
think it's over engineering and polling
despite how simple it sounds I think
would actually be the optimal solution
and that's why that's what I'm going to
go for you know this is what I would say
to my interviewer hopefully that makes
sense one additional thing that I failed
to mention is that now that you're
writing to both of these kind of
databases the database and the cache at
the same time you'll generally have the
concern about consistency like what
happens if you wrote to this one and
then your primary Service uh server went
down before you wrote to your cash now
your leaderboards always out of date
there are a lot of different ways to
handle this uh I'm not going to go into
all all of them one potential solution
is that you use change data capture
something that we've talked about in a
number of other videos and so off of
your primary database here if it was
Dynamo DB this is Dynam DB streams if
this is postgress I think they call it
something different logical replication
or something um but what effectively
would happen then is instead of an arrow
there you would just write it to your
database and then CDC captures an event
stream of all of the changes that have
happened to that database and puts them
in a queue you would configure this and
so like you could put Kafka here for
example um but you know there's going to
be some we're going to the the change
dat a capture excuse me the event stream
is going to be put onto some Q or some
stream like a CFA will have some worker
that pulls off of Kafka and then writes
it to the reddest cach I'm going to
extract that all away with just the CDC
Edge but that's one way that we can make
sure that if something is written to the
database it's also written to the redest
cach and then if our cash ever went down
well we could catch up um by just
reading the latest things off the stream
more likely we would probably just read
from the database and load back up and
start from where we were but you have
some options there okay now the other
one that we're going to talk about is
going to be the last one that we're
going to talk about availability versus
consistency is a little less interesting
in our implementation we've already
implemented something that prioritizes
availability we don't have you know
asset properties paramounts in our
database with transactions or any
consequences to locking or consistency
here so kind of uh by by the lack of
that or the absence of that this is
prioritizing High availability of course
we'd have the basic stuff like load
balancers between uh in front of each of
our servers the score scale horizontally
all of those things I'm not even going
to mention them necessarily um maybe
worth mentioning in a mid-level
interview for all other interviews it's
kind of obvious and inferred so not the
most important thing but we need to talk
about the scale to support competitions
with 100,000 users and that'll be kind
of similar to the availability stuff
here um so as I said horizontally scale
this sure whatever um but more
importantly what are we going to do down
here so the consequence to this is that
we could drop a submission and that
would be pretty bad especially if a user
gets to the end of the of the
competition they submit their last thing
we come in here we have a bunch of
people who are submitting towards the
end and we don't have enough containers
up and so we can't do anything we just
end up dropping their request and maybe
sending them an error and now they're
disappointed because it impacts Ed their
result and their score and now their
profile doesn't look as good and they're
in our email and all sorts of bad things
happen right so we don't want to drop
those requests we want to be able to
scale to this big surge of 100,000
things so what are some things that we
could do well we can proactively just
horizontally scale these a ton we have a
bunch more Docker containers these of
course are running on servers we can
have beefier servers we can have more of
them and as a result we can kind of
buffer any big um you know amount of
submissions that come in at any given
time that's expensive because we're
going to load up on all of these servers
prior to a competition we're not going
to need any of them until potentially at
the end and maybe we didn't guess right
so maybe we still Dro things so it's not
perfect another thing that we can do uh
and that we would call that pre-scaling
to put a word on it another thing that
we can do is something we can call
Dynamic scaling and so if these
containers are running in uh you know
AWS or any other Cloud environment um
then you can use cloud services that
have some sort of Auto scaling so maybe
this is like WS fargate with ECS
containers um and what you can do is you
can specify a
memory um or a CPU limit for which we
need to pull up more containers so if
your containers hit some limit in their
CPU or memory consumption we
automatically pull new ones up if they
go below some lower limit we'll
automatically tear them down this way we
can dynamically scale and so this option
is not bad but the reality is it
probably can't be dynamic enough if we
get to the end of the competition and we
all of a sudden get like 100,000
submissions then we're not going to be
able to Auto scale fast enough to be
able to handle that so instead what we
can do and what we should do is
introduce some buffering here so I'm
going to move things around a little bit
and when a submission comes in what
we're going to do is we're going to put
it first on a que and so this is going
to be some message Q it could be CFA it
could be AWS sqs either works here we're
just using it as a very simple message
cue so the choice there isn't that
important
and we're going to put the uh the
submission on AWS on that message CU and
then we'll have some worker that pulls
it pulls
those uh you know code run requests or
those submissions off this arrow is just
one sided and then that worker is going
to go over to our Docker containers and
say run that stuff and it's going to get
its response and now when it gets its
response it'll go to our primary server
and say you know write write this
submission data and then we'll do that
same flow that we did a moment ago where
we write to the database CDC updates the
cache so by doing this we've introduced
this Q importantly as a buffer so that
if we have a huge influx of things that
are coming they'll just get queued up
we'll be dynamically scaling this as
fast as we can and then the workers can
horizontally scale as well they'll be
pulling things off of the queue and then
so long as there's enough capacity here
they'll hand them to each of these these
guys in order to run the code and if
anything failed for some other reason
maybe we can add retries some other
durability properties there now that we
have the queue um but I'm not going to
go into as much detail for this
particular interview um so this is a
good approach but one thing that's
interesting here is now we've just made
submissions fully
asynchronous and so how does a user know
whether their submission passed or
failed this gets a little interesting
because now we have a primary server
that's putting it on a queue it couldn't
Theory wait here on the queue for a
couple of seconds runtime could take up
to 5 seconds and then the worker comes
back to the primary server maybe after
10 or so seconds this is too long
traditionally to have a single rest
request open um and so we need another
way to notify our user that their
submission either passed or failed and
so the way that we can do this again is
just with polling you could open up a
websocket or an ssse connection I'm
going to make the same argument I made
for the leaderboard and say that polling
is totally sufficient here and so I
would introduce like another API
endpoint let me move things around here
that is something like this uh checks
problem uh you know maybe it's the
problem ID and then like a submission
and then a submission ID or something
like this um and this is going to be
what Returns the actual submission this
is now just going to be a 200 or failure
whatever Arrow code error code and so a
user is going to kick off their
submission or it's going to post here go
through all of this run come back update
the database and then meanwhile they're
going to be running that get check call
which is going to go to our primary
service and look in the database for
that submission ID to see if it already
if it exists and if it does pass or fail
if it doesn't return you know it doesn't
exist yet and the client side logic will
know to keep trying that at least for up
to 5 seconds before it shows an error to
the user and so interestingly this might
sound not that sophisticated I guess to
some Watchers of this video but I want
you to go over to leak code and submit
your code at leak code and open up uh
you know your inspect element console
and the network tab there on the right
if you're using Chrome and you'll see
that every 3 seconds there's a request
to a slash check endpoint and so they do
exactly this they pull and it makes
sense it's a simple solution why over
engineers if you don't need to um so
that's how we would scale we would
introduce the que um and then maybe one
thing that I'll I'll I'll say here I
don't want this video to get too long
and I don't want to get distracted by
things that aren't the primary focus
here but of course when you introduce a
queue you don't want to store large
amounts of data on that queue and so if
our problem Solutions end up being
pretty large kind of similar what I
talked about in the beginning then what
you're likely going to do is introduce
S3 here and store the solution
or the code solution itself oh store the
code solution itself in S3 and then we
don't need to put the code in AWS we
would download it again from S3 in the
worker before passing it to each of
these guys but that's small and minor I
just want to make sure people you know
might notice that and comment in the
comments so I'm just not going to focus
on it here but that is how you would
handle
that all right just like that we have a
a design here that crucially meets all
of our functional requirements and our
non-functional requirements and this is
really the moment in the interview when
you know you've done a good job if you
can look at your system here and you can
go back through your functional and
nonfunctional and say check check check
I've met all of those then you should be
leaving the interview feeling pretty
confident and so quickly let me just
give an overview maybe of what I'd be
looking for at each level here I know I
went into a bit less of that than I do
in in in kind of the normal interviews I
don't ask this question typically of
Staff candidates though I have seen it
be asked some of the major fangs of
Staff candidates um but I think it's a
little on the easier side and so as a
result I usually ask it for mid-level
and Senior candidates for mid-level
candidates kind of the main thing is
that you realize the importance of the
code isolation usually just running this
in Docker uh or in some Lambda is a
great first step there I wouldn't expect
that you're able to enumerate maybe all
of these things are important but
usually having some explicit timeout uh
is really important that's good so
Docker container and some timeout would
satisfy all of this I I want you to
recognize that this query to fetch the
leaderboard is super slow and not
optimal so maybe that caching solution
with the cron uh Cron job to constantly
refresh the cash that would be great
that would be passing uh I'd want you to
kind of recognize or at least I might
bring up the question to say something
like uh how are you going to handle that
that scale that influx at the end of
competitions and you should be able to
brainstorm some good ideas there whether
it's kind of pre-scaling autoscaling or
ultimately this que for senior
candidates we we we want to be able to
land uh probably closer to this Q
solution or at least have some good
justification for the Lambda and how
you're going to pre-warm it uh so that
we don't have that cold start problem
I'd like you to get uh the the Cron job
at least maybe you come to something
closer to this not necessarily with the
reddish sorted set that's great to see
but there are other variations that
would work all the well but likewise you
should know that this this query is
suboptimal um you should recognize all
the same things about security maybe you
bring up one or two additional ones here
like the CPU and memory bounds was an
important one but if you do all of these
things in either the mid-level or senior
interview respectively it's likely going
to be a
hire um okay so that that wraps things
up for us thank you everybody if you
made it this far congratulations I think
this ended up being over an hour so
apologies it's a little longer than I
usually aim for um one thing that I will
actually mention before you sign off is
that we've been working on something new
over at hello interview I'll link this
in the description but we've been
working on these things called guided
practices and they allow you to try the
problems that I have YouTube videos for
here yourself you basically answer a
question step by step the functional the
non-functional core entities API all the
way to high Lev design and deep Dives
drawing them on a whiteboard and then
you're able to get some instant feedback
on your solution so I think it's a
really opportune way to practice
Hands-On as opposed to just reading or
watching content now as you're seeing at
the the time of this recording we just
have Ticket Master up on the site you
can try that now um by this time next
week you'll also see uh at least four
additional other ones including leak
code which I I've just finished locally
here so uh try that out I think that'll
be interesting for folks and a great
opportunity to practice like I said
Hands-On with these problems um lastly
comment uh like And subscribe of course
let me know what I did wrong as always
let me know if you liked it uh I'd love
to hear from you and I try to respond to
as many comments as possible possible so
we we'll have another another interview
breakdown here in the coming two to 3
weeks I'll see you guys then